src/exploit/windows/Windows-Forensics.md, before:

---
title: Windows Forensics
description: Windows Forensics is the method of gathering information about the target Windows system.
tags:
    - Malware
    - Windows
refs:
    - https://tryhackme.com/room/windowsforensics1
date: 2023-02-10
draft: false
---

## System Information

### IP Address & MAC Address

Below are the location of the file which contains the information of IP address and MAC address.

```bash
# Look@LAN is a network monitoring tool. So if the system uses the tool, we can retrieve the information of the network.
# LANIP -> IP address
# LANNIC -> MAC address
c:\Program Files (x86)\Look@LAN\irunin.ini
```

### Network Cards

The name of the network card is such like “Intel(R) PRO/1000 MT Desktop Adapter”.

```bash
c:\ProgramData\Microsoft\DiagnosticLogCSP\Collectors\DiagnosticLogCSP_Collector_DeviceProvisioning_2023_1_2_3_45_67.etl
```

### PowerShell History

Sometimes PowerShell command history contains the sensitive information about the system.

```bash
c:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell\PSReadline\ConsoleHost_history.txt
```

### Malware History

Suspicious activities are likely detected by Windows Defender.

```bash
c:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows Defender\Scans\History\Service\DetectionHistory\
```

<br />

## Registry Hives

A hive is a logical group of keys, subkeys, and values in the registry that has a set of supporting files loaded into memory when the operating system is started or a user logs in.

### Registry Editor

We can find registry keys in the Registry Editor.

1. Click on the Windows icon and select Run.
2. Enter “regedit” in the input form. Registry Editor opens.

### Registry Editor

You can find registry key in the Registry Editor.

### File Locations

**Registry Hives** are located in C:\Windows\System32\config.

- **DEFAULT (HKEY_USERS\DEFAULT in regedit)**
- **SAM (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SAM in regedit)**
- **SECURITY (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Security in regedit)**
- **SOFTWARE (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software in regedit)**
- **SYSTEM (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System in regedit)**

The other hives are located in user home directory (C:\Users\\<username\>)

- **NTUSER.DAT (HKEY_CURRENT_USER in regedit)**
    
    It contains the information of the user account settings.  
    It is located in **C:\Users\\<username\>** .
    
- **USRCLASS.DAT (HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\CLASSES)**
    
    It stores the ShellBag information for the Desktop, ZIP files, remote folders, local folders, etc.  
    It is located in **C:\Users\\<username\>\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows** .
    

**Amcache Hive** is located in **C:\Windows\AppCompat\Programs\Amcache.hve** .  
It stores the information on programs that were recently run on the system.

<br />

## Acquire Registry Data

- **KAPE**
- **[Autopsy](https://www.autopsy.com/)**
- **[FTK Imager](https://www.exterro.com/ftk-imager)**

<br />

## Gather Information From Registry Hives

We can retrieve information using [Registry Viewer](https://accessdata.com/product-download/registry-viewer-2-0-0) or [Registry Explorer](https://ericzimmerman.github.io/#!index.md).

### OS Version

- SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion)

### Current Control Set

- SYSTEM\ControlSet001
- SYSTEM\ControlSet002

### Computer Name

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ComputerName\ComputerName

### Time Zone

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\TimeZoneInformation

### Network

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters\Interfaces

### SAM Hive & User Information

- SAM\Domains\Account\Users

### Recent Files

- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explore\RecentDocs

### Microsoft Office Recent Files

- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Office\VERSION

### ShellBags

- USRCLASS.DAT\Local Settings\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\Bag
- USRCLASS.DAT\Local Settings\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\BagMRU
- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\BagMRU
- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\Bags

### ShimCache

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\AppCompatCache

### AmCache

- Amcache.hve\Root\File\\<Volume GUID\>\

### BAM/DAM

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\bam\UserSettings\\<SID\>
- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\dam\UserSetitngs\\<SID\>

### UserAssist

- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\UserAssist\\<GUID\>\Count

### Devices

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Enum\USBSTOR
- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Enum\USB
- SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows Portable Devices\Devices

Commit message:

Added a new tool Fuzzagotchi in the right pane

src/exploit/windows/Windows-Forensics.md, after:

---
title: Windows Forensics
description: Windows Forensics is the method of gathering information about the target Windows system.
tags:
    - Malware
    - Windows
refs:
    - https://tryhackme.com/room/windowsforensics1
date: 2023-02-27
draft: false
---

## System Information

### IP Address & MAC Address

Below are the location of the file which contains the information of IP address and MAC address.

```bash
# Look@LAN is a network monitoring tool. So if the system uses the tool, we can retrieve the information of the network.
# LANIP -> IP address
# LANNIC -> MAC address
c:\Program Files (x86)\Look@LAN\irunin.ini
```

### Network Cards

The name of the network card is such like “Intel(R) PRO/1000 MT Desktop Adapter”.

```bash
c:\ProgramData\Microsoft\DiagnosticLogCSP\Collectors\DiagnosticLogCSP_Collector_DeviceProvisioning_2023_1_2_3_45_67.etl
```

### PowerShell History

Sometimes PowerShell command history contains the sensitive information about the system.

```bash
c:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell\PSReadline\ConsoleHost_history.txt
```

### Malware History

Suspicious activities are likely detected by Windows Defender.

```bash
c:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows Defender\Scans\History\Service\DetectionHistory\
```

<br />

## Event Logs

### Event Viewer

Below is the list of item worth noting.

- **`Applications and Services Logs/Windows/Sysmon/Operational`**
- **`Applications and Services Logs/Windows/PrintService/Admin`**

In each item, we can find the desired list by specifying the keyword in the “Find” action in the right pane.

### PowerShell

Also we can see event logs from a logfile in PowerShell.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -Path  .\Example.evtx -FilterXPath '*/System/*' | Sort-Object TimeCreated
```

<br />

## Processes

### Process Monitor

- To get the parent PID of the specific process, click **“Filter”** icon and enter the process name (e.g. “spoolsv.exe”) then select **“Include”**, and click Apply. Right-click on the highlighted item and go to **“Process”** tab. We can see the parent PID.

<br />

## Registry Hives

A hive is a logical group of keys, subkeys, and values in the registry that has a set of supporting files loaded into memory when the operating system is started or a user logs in.

### Registry Editor

We can find registry keys in the Registry Editor.

1. Click on the Windows icon and select Run.
2. Enter “regedit” in the input form. Registry Editor opens.

### File Locations

**Registry Hives** are located in C:\Windows\System32\config.

- **DEFAULT (HKEY_USERS\DEFAULT in regedit)**
- **SAM (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SAM in regedit)**
- **SECURITY (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Security in regedit)**
- **SOFTWARE (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software in regedit)**
- **SYSTEM (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System in regedit)**

The other hives are located in user home directory (C:\Users\\<username\>)

- **NTUSER.DAT (HKEY_CURRENT_USER in regedit)**
    
    It contains the information of the user account settings.  
    It is located in **C:\Users\\<username\>** .
    
- **USRCLASS.DAT (HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\CLASSES)**
    
    It stores the ShellBag information for the Desktop, ZIP files, remote folders, local folders, etc.  
    It is located in **C:\Users\\<username\>\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows** .
    

**Amcache Hive** is located in **C:\Windows\AppCompat\Programs\Amcache.hve** .  
It stores the information on programs that were recently run on the system.

<br />

## Acquire Registry Data

- **KAPE**
- **[Autopsy](https://www.autopsy.com/)**
- **[FTK Imager](https://www.exterro.com/ftk-imager)**

<br />

## Gather Information From Registry Hives

We can retrieve information using [Registry Viewer](https://accessdata.com/product-download/registry-viewer-2-0-0) or [Registry Explorer](https://ericzimmerman.github.io/#!index.md).

### OS Version

- SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion)

### Current Control Set

- SYSTEM\ControlSet001
- SYSTEM\ControlSet002

### Computer Name

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\ComputerName\ComputerName

### Time Zone

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\TimeZoneInformation

### Network

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters\Interfaces

### SAM Hive & User Information

- SAM\Domains\Account\Users

### Recent Files

- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explore\RecentDocs

### Microsoft Office Recent Files

- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Office\VERSION

### ShellBags

- USRCLASS.DAT\Local Settings\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\Bag
- USRCLASS.DAT\Local Settings\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\BagMRU
- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\BagMRU
- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\Shell\Bags

### ShimCache

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\AppCompatCache

### AmCache

- Amcache.hve\Root\File\\<Volume GUID\>\

### BAM/DAM

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\bam\UserSettings\\<SID\>
- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\dam\UserSetitngs\\<SID\>

### UserAssist

- NTUSER.DAT\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\UserAssist\\<GUID\>\Count

### Devices

- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Enum\USBSTOR
- SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Enum\USB
- SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows Portable Devices\Devices
